Before birth, the baby grows
and develops in the uterus, or womb.
The birthing process begins with
regular contractions of the uterus
and dilation, or opening of the cervix,
the narrow opening where
the uterus joins the vagina.
When the cervix is fully dilated
at 10 centimeters,
around 4 inches,
uterine contractions become
stronger and more frequent.
The baby goes through a series
of passive movements,
especially the head.
Birth stations indicate
how low the baby’s head
can be felt in the mother’s pelvis.
The baby’s head then begins
its passage out of the vagina
called crowning.
Labor continues
as the baby’s head and body
pass out of the womb and vagina.